# From Liferay Portal 6 to 7 [](id=from-liferay-6-to-liferay-7)

Becoming familiar with a platform as large and fully featured as Liferay is  a
big task. You learn the ins and outs of what it can do, the tips and best
practices of the experts, and you work your way through the APIs. As you do
this, you become more and more familiar with how things work, become more
proficient with the platform as you multiply successes on it, and start to think
in terms of how you'd solve problems most effectively using the tools the
platform gives you. Eventually, if you use it long enough, it can seem like an
old friend that's ready to stand by you and help you succeed in your projects. 

@product-ver@ was designed as an enhancement that builds off of what you already
know. Its Code Upgrade Tool and this tutorial series--or Learning Path--help get
your existing plugins running on @product-ver@ right away. The tool automates
much of the process. After you upgrade your plugins, you can build and deploy
them as you always have. 

@product-ver@ has exciting improvements for developers too. This Learning Path
shows you how to leverage them. Since you already know previous versions of
Liferay Portal, you're several steps ahead of everybody else. 

This Learning Path describes the benefits of @product-ver@ for developers
compared to previous versions, the architectural improvements, the benefits that
modularity brings, and how to develop modules and how they differ from
traditional plugins. You'll see all the options for leveraging new developer
features, learn the pros and cons of each, and  examine steps for optimizing
your existing plugins for @product-ver@.

In the end, we believe you'll both want to adopt @product-ver@, and you'll see
how you can thrive using it. 

+$$$

**Note**: If you want to learn about @product-ver@'s architectural improvements,
OSGi and modularity, and tooling improvements, read on. If you're more
interested in upgrading your plugins first, skip to
[Planning Plugin Upgrades and Optimizations](/develop/tutorials/-/knowledge_base/7-0/migrating-existing-code-to-liferay-7). 

$$$

You'll start by seeing the familiar, good things that remain the same and then
examine whatâ€™s changed the most since Liferay Portal 6. 
