# Using @product@ as a collaborative platform [](id=using-liferay-portal-as-a-collaborative-platform)

Many sites have grown organically. You may have grown your community by using
separate tools: first a forums application, and then a wiki for collaborative
documentation, and maybe even a chat application. It can be hard (and
error-prone) to integrate all these applications so your users can use them
seamlessly. Thankfully, Liferay includes a suite of collaborative applications,
and they're all integrated together. 

@product@ offers every standard collaborative application that's available.
These applications range from personal productivity applications like a calendar
and email, to community-building applications like message boards, polls, and
wikis. 

![Figure 1.6: @product@'s message boards are as fully featured as any standalone forum application, with the added benefit that they're integrated with the rest of the system.](../../images/01-message-boards.png)

This is a suite of integrated applications with all the features of similar,
standalone applications. For example, @product@'s message boards include
categories and subcategories, message threads, captcha, RSS feeds, email
notification, posting via email, and much more. But more than this, the
applications are integrated with the rest of @product@'s framework. Users
log in and their profiles are used automatically by the message boards and all
the other collaborative applications. And as we'll see later, functionality from
the built in applications can be added to your own to provide features like
comments in your own software, and you don't have to write any code to do it. 

@product@'s wiki is another example of a full-featured collaborative
application. It has support for authoring pages in a WYSWYG editor, or more
advanced users can use the easy-to-learn standard Wiki Creole syntax. The wiki
keeps a full history of every change that's been made, allowing users to revert
back to any change. Users can comment on wiki articles or read them via RSS
feeds (just about every Liferay application supports this). Each site can have
one or more wikis, and each wiki can have one or more top-level nodes. 

One important feature of all the collaborative applications--as well as web
content and documents--is the Recycle Bin. If users delete content that needs to
be restored later, you don't have to find it in your backups: it's in the
Recycle Bin. 

![Figure 1.7: The Recycle Bin can hold any kind of content.](../../images/recycle-bin-overview.png)

@product@'s suite of collaborative applications includes a blog (complete
with blog aggregation features so you can publish multiple users' blog entries
in one place), a chat application for users who are online at the same time,
message boards, a wiki, a knowledge base that you can use to publish a library
of articles, a polling system you can use to have users vote on certain
questions, and personal productivity applications like a calendar.

@product@ includes every application you'll need to enable users to
collaborate. Next, you'll see how Liferay can host multiple web sites.
